%!TEX root = ../../main.tex

The rank of a Tucker decomposition, given by the size of $\mathcal{G}$, directly
impacts the amount of compression, so the choice of rank is consequential. If
the decomposition's ranks are large, then great accuracy is achieved at the cost
of poor compression. If the decomposition's ranks are small, then great
compression is achieved at the cost of poor accuracy. This is known as the
tensor decomposition trade-off as seen in
\Cref{fig:tensor_decomposition_trade_off}. It is applied to all forms of
decompositions, but it is specially relevant here. 

\begin{figure}[ht!]
    \centering
    \input{tikz/chapter3/trade-off.tex}
    \caption{The Tensor Decomposition Trade-Off}
    \label{fig:tensor_decomposition_trade_off}
\end{figure}

To know compression beforehand, we specify the size of the core tensor
$\mathcal{G}$. In the 3-way case, we specify the array of ranks $\mathbf{r} =
[q, r, s]$, or in the $d$-way case, $\mathbf{r} = [r_1, \hdots, r_d]$. Because
we know the ranks beforehand, this is called the \textbf{rank-specified}
formulation, and with it, we also know the compression ratio before hand as seen
in \Cref{eq:compression_ratio} for the 3-way case. In this formulation, we
cannot say in advance what the accuracy will be.

\begin{equation} \label{eq:compression_ratio}
    \frac{mnp}{qrs + qm + nr + sp} \approx \frac{mnp}{qrs}
\end{equation}

To know accuracy beforehand, we specify the maximum relative error threshold
$\epsilon$ of the tucker approximation. The 3-way case of the relative error can
be seen in \Cref{eq:rel_error}. This is called the \textbf{error-specified}
formulation, where we cannot say in advance what the compression will be. 

\begin{equation} \label{eq:rel_error}
    \frac{\| \mathcal{X} - \llbracket \mathcal{G}; \mathbf{U, V, W} \rrbracket \|}{\|\mathcal{X}\|} \leq \epsilon
\end{equation}

We now go on a journey to understand two of the main Tucker Decomposition
algorithms; STHOSVD and HOOI. STHOSVD is the more popular of the two for many
reasons, but one of them is that the algorithm works in both rank- and
error-specified formulation whereas HOOI, on the other hand, can only work in
the rank-specified formulation. 


\section{Tucker Algorithms} \label{sec:Tucker Algorithms}
    \input{text/chapter3/section3-1.tex}

\section{The TuckerMPI Library} \label{sec:The TuckerMPI Library}
    \input{text/chapter3/section3-2.tex}

\section{Results} \label{sec:results}
    \input{text/chapter3/section3-3.tex}